what is data and what is database ?
data is nothing but set of info and database is nothing but where i store all my data 


what is dbms and types of dbms ?
dbms stands for database management system and dbms are few types :-- 1. rdbms 2.nordbms


what is rdbms and give an exmaples ?
rdbms stands for relational database management system and it is used to build realtions b/w the tables and mysql is example for rdbms and also oracledb, sqllite etc..


what is sql ?
sql stands for structured query lang and it is used to communicate with rdbms 



what is d/f b/w sql and mysql ?
sql stands for structured query lang and it is used to communicate with rdbms where mysql is software and we need to install it and it is used to manage the data in dbs and used to perform crud operations over the data

what are datatypes in sql ? and mention few ?
we use datatypes in sql to define what data to be entreded into particular column  and we have few dTypes :-- char, varchar, int, decimal, date, enum,boolean etc..


what is d/f b/w char() vs varchar()  datatypes in sql ?
when ever we wanna give fixed values like "M" r "F" then we can go with char(1) and here we do waste any memory where varchar(50) is used to when ever you wanna give at most 50 char length (automatic length adjusting)

what is d/f b/w the int and decimal datatypes in sql ?
int and decimal are noth number type of datatypes and int is used to give fixed and number without decimal where decimal is used to give float number values with flexbility in value giving decimal(10,2)

what is decimal and float dTypes in sql ? ###### research qn

what are operators in sql and mention types of operators ?
operator is a symbol and used to perform specific operations over operands
and we have few operators and they are air, com, logical, special 



what is d/f b/w the and , or , not logical  operators ?
here and op is used to when we need to get left and right operands should be true 
were or is used to when either one of operand is true 
and where not is used to make vice-versa of value 



what are special operators and explain each of them ?
special operators are used to peform complex where conditions in easy and simple way
and we have few ops :-- they are 1.in 2.between 3.like 4.is null 5.is not null

in :-- is used to perform conditions on list of values with where clause
between :-- is used to perform conditions over a range of values i.e inr r decimal values 
like :-- is used to perform conditions where we wana do get person whose names ends with "a" r fooditem containg "chciken" in their names
is null :-- is used to perform conditions when we wanna find where values is null 
is not null :-- is used to perform conditions when we wanna find where values are not null


what are constraints and explain each constraint in sql?
constraints are used to perform condition while inserting the data into table and what  data should be enter into table and what not 
and type of constraints are pk,fk,unique,not null,check,default


what is d/f b/w the unique and pk ?
unique :-- is used to maintain only unique values should be in to that column
pk :-- is used to maintain unique + not null values should be in that column 

what is d/f b/w check and default ?
check :-- is is used to check the value and if condition is true then i will insert that value to that column 
applying specific condition on particular column with specific criteria  

default :-- 
is used to give default value if we miss to pass any value into that column

what is d/f b/w pk and fk ?
pk :-- is used to maintain unique + not null values should be in that column 
fk :-- 

what are sql commands and types of sql cmmands ?
sql commands are used to perform specific operations and we have 5 types of sql commands
1. DQL :-- select
2. DML :-- insert, update, delete
3. DDL :-- create, alter, drop, truncate, rename
4. TCL :-- commit, rollback
5. DCL :-- grant, revoke


what is the d/f b/w the select and insert commands ?
select :-- is used to  select the columns from a specific table 
insert :-- is used to insert the data into table as single row r multiple rows

what is the d/f b/w the create and alter ?
create :-- is used to create the table and db
alter :-- is used to alter the table structure ( columns, rows, colunnmaes, tablenames,column dTypes,constraints)

what is the d/f b/w the drop and delete ?
drop :-- is used to drop the columns and tables and dbs 
deleet :-- is used to delete the rows 


what is the d/f b/w the alter and update ?
alter :-- is used to alter the table structure ( columns, rows, colunnmaes, tablenames,column dTypes,constraints)
update :-- is used to update the data in the existing row 


what is the d/f b/w the update and modify ?
update :-- is used to update the data in the existing row
modify :-- is used to modify the structure of the column 



what are clauses in sql and what are they ?
clauses in sql are used to do filteration and grouping and applyig conidtion on grouped results and maintain the order of results

where  :-- is used to perform filteration over the columns and getting matched rows 
where :-- is used to filter rows based on conidtion over the column 
group by :-- is used to group the table into multiple grps based onthe grping culmn_name
order by  :-- is used to miantain the result tables data in order (asc, desc)
having :-- is used to perform the condition over the virtual columns which wre created while using agg functions with grp by clause



what are aggregate functions and what are they ?
aggregate functions are used to get single values over no of values of a column 
and they are 
sum
min 
max
avg 
count
